BASIC SELECTORS: 
Type,Id,Class, and Attribute

SPAN ARE IN LINE ELEMENTS YOU CANNOT GIVE IT A CUSTOMED WIDTH/ HEIGHT UNLESS YOU CHANGE THE DISPLAY TO INLINE-BLOCK

RELATIONAL SELECTORS: 
+"whatever element after selected id" ~"all elements after" ^"The one before selected id" 
(regular ex.p)"type the element and it will select all of the same types that are within the selected id"

<article>: contain any independent self contained piece of content like a tweet

*Block level elements begin on a new line
*An element can multiple classes seperated by a space
*fr is a unit that stands for fraction of available space and should be used as an alternative to percentages when setting 
the sizes of rows and columns
*[:nth-of-type()] which selects the number of occurence of whatever selector this property is attached to 
Ex. .box:nth-of-type(2) will select the second occurence of the .box class  
* for changing font size for printers you want to use the pt unit and for changing padding and margins you want to use cm/in

PSUEDO-CLASS SELECTORS: 
(:first-child)"The first child element of the selected type is affected"
(:first-of-type)"The first appearences of each owns tpyes within the selected type ex:<h2> <p>... are selected and changed
you can change this and only alter a specific first of type if you write the element in front of it ex.p:first-of-type
(:last-of-type)"the opposite of first of type same rules apply" 
(:last-child)"the opposite of first child same rules apply"
(:nth-child())"usually used in a list, more like a function selector, in the parenthesis you can type odd/even to select only 
any even or add variable. you can also input 3n to target every 3rd element
(:visited, :link, :hover) visited and link only apply to hyper links, they change the design of the link at default before
the link has been interacted with as well as when "visited" A.K.A when clicked. :hover can be used for almost any type of 
element and should always be written with a :focus for users that use the tab key. The hover functions changes the design of 
the selected variable whenever the mouse hovers over the object.

PSUEDO ELEMENT SELECTORS:
*You use :: for Psuedo Elements and : for Psuedo Classes. Psuedo elements are used when you're Styiling part of an element
and Psuedo Classes are used for Styling elements in a particular state. (::first-letter/::first-line) Selects and styles 
the first letter in the selected element. Selects and styles the first line of characters in a selected element
(::selection) Allows you to stylize the background when highlighting objects.
(::after/::before) using content: in this function allows you to impliment content before the content of the selected element
the same goes for ::after.you can change the display: to make it a blocklevel element thus taking up the entire line of space
by typing (display:block;)

Selectors Specificity:
when two different functions target an element the browser will choose whichever function target is most specific. 
Ex. an element with an Id will be the most specific because you cannot have multiple elements with the same id. the next to
follow would be class and attributes because you can have multiple elemnts with the same class it's not as specific.
and the last in the chain would be element selector(type:h1,p,article....) this because you can have multiple elements of 
the same type. (!important) Using this keyword will nulify any functions that would normally overrule the selected function
your applying it to. 

COLORS:
There are multiple ways to Select color in css, you can use(Named Colors-color:red) (rgb-rgb(250,116,70)) 
(HSL-hsl(215°, 43%, 49%)remove degree character) (Hexadecimal-#4774b3) for hsl and rgb you can add an a at the end of the 
function label which then enables you to add a fourth value ranging from decimals 0-1 which changes the opacity of a color.

GRADIENTS:
Allows a transition of two or more colors. cannot use background color property to use gradients you write background-image:
or just background: then input (linear-gradient(any colors using rgb,hsl...)) you can customize the positioning of the
colors by using to right, to bottom right... or degrees 45deg,90deg.. You can also add a percentage at the end of the written
color (dodgerblue 30%) which specifies when the color should begin (radial-gradient) this function works the same as 
linear-gradient however to change positioning of the color start and end you cannot use degrees only at top left, at left..

BORDERS:
Borders take in three values 10px-determine how thick the border will be, Solid/dotted/dashed, determines the type of border
and the finally whatever color you decide the border to be. you can use the function by typing border: or be more specific
border-top: border-left: and so on. (border: 10px solid royalblue) order placement of these lines matter. There's also 
border-width: that changes the width of all sides of the border. first value-width of top border 2nd width of right 
3rd width of bottom 4th width of left (border-radius:) Allows you to make the border more round *Css shapes is
a glossary of all shapes you can make on css which you can find online through google.

SHADOWS:
(box-shadow:)

BOX MODEL: The invisible area that surronds the selected content/element. This model can be seen through *Inspect on your
internet browser, the size can also be manipulated through CSS. To edit the padding write(padding:) then you can insert
4 values that alter the size top, right, bottom, left. *Use the margin propety to seperate elements, and the padding property
to add space between the border and content area. 

OVERFLOW: occurs when there's too much content in the box range and proceeds to extend past the given area. By default
the overflow: ; property is set to visible you can change this to hidden to hide any extending content or scroll which
allows you to scroll down the content area to see all elements present. or even use the term auto which only displays
the scroll bar when overflow is present(seems like this should be the alternative to any use of scroll) the overflow:
method is a combined element of overlow-y and overflow-x using these seperately allows you to have more control of the 
overflow content present.this can also be done by adding two variables in the Overflow: element (Ex. Overflow: hidden auto;)

MEASUREMENT UNITS: measurement units fall into two categories, Absolute and Relative. Absolute units are always fixed(pixel
point, inches,centimeters,and milimeters) Relative units are relative to something else(% relative to the size of the 
container, VW[viewport height] and VH[viewport width] which are relative to the viewport, and EM and REM which are relevant 
to the font size)

*In line elements don't respect the height and width properties, to give them a width and height we have to set their 
display: to inline-block;

Z-INDEX: There are three kinds of axises the Horizontal(x-axis), Vertical(Y-axis), and finally the (Z-axis) which represents
depth. the z-index by default is always set to 0, you can change this value and add a positive or negative value to move
it closer(positive) or farther(negative).

POSITIONING:*by default the position: of all elements is static; to move the positioning of an element you'd first type 
relative then underneath you can type left/right/top/bottom and implement a positive or negative value depending on how far 
you'd like to move your element. You can use whatever form of units you'd like depending on the scenario you're working 
on. There are two types of positioning The first which i just explained with the Z-index and units is 
(Relative and then theres Absolute positioning and fixed positioning) In contrast where relative positioning is moved 
relative to its normal spot Absolute positioning is moved relative to its container.**If you wish to move an element relative
to its container the containers position: must first be set to relative. when giving an element an absolute position that 
element no longer exists in the previous layer all elements present in that layer are then rendered as if the absolute 
element was never there and the absolute element is then made into a new layer. Fixed positioning makes an element relevant
to the viewport of a browser.

FLOATING ELEMENTS: when giving an element the function of float: you can have the element float to the right or left side 
of the container. This will move the element in either way then all elements following will then move and float around the 
floating element. if you wish for some elements to not float around the specified element this is when you'd use the clear:
function. when using the clear: function you'd set it to either right ot left this depends on whether your floating element
is floating right or left. you can even use the term both if you have multiple elements floating right and left.*By default 
parent elements don't see floated elements. This can cause a float collapse. to solve an issue like this you'd want to make
a function with the after element ex. .clearfix::after{} then type in content:'' display:block; so that you change the inline
into a block level element and then clear:both;

FLEX: using Flex allows you to layout a bundle of elements in one direction either in a row or in a column. you can control
the direction by using the flex-direction property, the default value for this property is row but you can set it to column
or column reverse which is an inverted version of column and row reverse when the boxes are moved to the right and the order
is inverted. Now to allign items you need to use *Axes, there are two types of axes the main(primary axis) and the cross
(secondary Axis) These axis are dependent on the direction. Setting the direction to row(direction:row;) will make the main 
axis go in the horizontal axis and the cross on the vertical axis, and by setting direction to column(direction:column;)
these roles would be reversed. There are two properties you must use to align, (justify-content) to align items
on the main axis, and (align-items) to align items on the cross axis. The default value for justify-content is 
flex-start starting the items at the beginning of the horizontal axis you can change this to flex-end and move the items
to the end of the horizontal axis. and center to have items centered in the midddle of the horizontal axis. you can use
the order (space-evenly) which spaces your elements evenly on the horixontal axis, There is space-between which pushes the
first and last items to the beginning and end of the horizontal axis then puts space between those elements and any other 
elements that are in that axis. To change the alignment of one element you'd want to use (align-self) this property is used
on a flex item and not a flex container. you can use flex-start and flex-end in align-self to allign the element up or down

*The default value of flex-wrap is no wrap yiu ca change it to wrap to move elements onto another line so they all keep their
original size leaving it on no wrap keeps all elements on the same line but can alter size if too many are present
*Align content only works if you have multiple lines in a flex container

SIZING: There a multiple properties you can use to change the sizing of an item using flex. (flex-basis) this property
allows you to change the initial size of a flex item. (flex-grow) which changes the growth factor, (Flex-shrink) which
changes the shrink factor, and (flex) which is a combination of all three. *All of these properties should be used on flex 
items and not flex containers.

(flex-basis) is naturally in auto which means it takes the value of the initial width or height. by giving it a value it will
change it's size of either the width or height. if you have your flex direction to row it will change the value of the width
and if the direction is set to column it will change the value of the items height.

(FLEX-GROW/FLEX-SHRINK) These properties are naturally set to 0, and by giving them a value of 1 or higher they will begin
to grow or shrink to allocate/recalibrate any open space or lack of open space. 

(FLEX) This property is a combination of all three properties above. you can give this property anywhere from 1 to 3 values
(grow, shrink, basis) the first value will always be grow but you can change the second value to basis and null shrink
by giving the second value a unit of measurement EX. (1, 15rem)

(GRID) where Flexbox controls the layouts of elements in either a row or a column GRID has the capability of laying out 
elements in both rows and columns. To first define a grid you need a container using the display:grid; property. to create
a grid with a certain amount of rows and columns (Ex. 3x2) you can use the (grid-template-rows: 100px 100px 100px;) property
and the (grid-template-columns: 100px 100px;) property to make a 3x2 grid. you can make this code shorter by instead of 
typing out the individiual dimensions multiple times you can type repeat(3, 100px) as a subsitute for both properties.
you can make this code shorter by just using the (grid-template) which is a combination of both the row and column property
then typing repeat(3, 100px) / repeat(2,100px); to make your 3x2 grid. To apply a GAP between rows and columns there are 
three properties (ROW-GAP, COLUMN-GAP, and GAP) 

PLACING ITEMS- There are three properties for placing items in a grid [GRID-ROW, GRID-COLUMN, and GRID-AREA*combination of 2]

HIDING ELEMENTS-you can use the display: property and set it to none which will then hide the element this property is 
applied to and will act as if the element was never there, Using the visibility: property you can set this property to hidden
hiding the selected element however the space that was taken up when the element was visible will still remain

MEDIA QUERIES-

IMAGE TYPES- (RASTER) raster images come from cameras/scanners, Formats JPG,PNG,GIF, etc more pixels = larger file size
look blury if scaled up. RASTER IMAGE FORMATS- JPEG(16m colors) GIF(256 colors, transparency, animation)
PNG(16m colors, Transparency, Animation) Webp(16m colors, transparency, animation)

(VECTOR) Created in software(illustrator) FORMAt:svg svg= scalable vector graphics, look sharp at any size.

Physical Resolution 

Logical Resolution 

Device Pixel ratio(DPR)

High density screen>dpr1

*SVGBACKGROUNDS.com






